iOS: Quickstart (#1336)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/quickstarts/ios.mdx

---
description: Add authentication and user management to your iOS app with Clerk.
---

# iOS Quickstart (Beta)

> [!WARNING]
> The Clerk iOS SDK is currently in beta. It is **not yet recommended for production use**.

<TutorialHero
  framework="iOS"
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Clerk application",

>       link: "https://clerk.com/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",

Reviewer: Let's make this relative so that it works across environments:

```suggestion
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
```

      icon: "clerk",
    }
  ]}
>
  - Create a new Xcode project
  - Install the Clerk iOS SDK
  - Configure `Clerk` with your publishable key
  - Use Clerk to enable users to sign in and out of your application
</TutorialHero>

<Steps>
  ### Create an iOS Project

  To get started using Clerk with iOS, create a new project in Xcode. Select SwiftUI as your interface and Swift as your language.
  See the [Xcode documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/creating-an-xcode-project-for-an-app) for more information.

  ### Install the Clerk iOS SDK

  Follow the Swift Package Manager [instructions](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/adding-package-dependencies-to-your-app) to install Clerk as a dependency.
  When prompted for the package URL, enter [https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios). Be sure to add the package to your target.

  ### Load Clerk

  To use Clerk in your app, you must first configure and load `Clerk`.

>   - Inside your new project in Xcode, open your `@main` app file.
>   - Import `ClerkSDK`.
>   - Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.
>   - Replace `ContentView()` with the below `ZStack`.
>   - Attach a `.task` modifier to the new `ZStack`. In the body of the task, configure `clerk` with your publishable key, and then load `clerk`. You can get your publishable key from the [API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page of the Clerk Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. Inside your new project in Xcode, open your `@main` app file.
  1. Import `ClerkSDK`.
  1. Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.
  1. Replace `ContentView()` with the below `ZStack`.
  1. Attach a `.task` modifier to the new `ZStack`. In the body of the task, configure `clerk` with your publishable key, and then load `clerk`. You can get your publishable key from the [API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page of the Clerk Dashboard.
```

  ```swift {{ filename: 'ClerkQuickstartApp.swift', mark: [2, 6, [10, 20]] }}
  import SwiftUI
  import ClerkSDK

  @main
  struct ClerkQuickstartApp: App {
    @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared

    var body: some Scene {
      WindowGroup {
        ZStack {
          if clerk.loadingState == .notLoaded {
            ProgressView()
          } else {
            ContentView()
          }
        }
        .task {
          clerk.configure(publishableKey: "{{pub_key}}")
          try? await clerk.load()
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  ### Conditionally render content

  To render content based on whether a user is authenticated or not:

>   - Open your `ContentView` file.
>   - Import `ClerkSDK`.
>   - Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.
>   - Replace the content of the view body with a conditional that checks for a `clerk.user`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. Open your `ContentView` file.
  1. Import `ClerkSDK`.
  1. Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.
  1. Replace the content of the view body with a conditional that checks for a `clerk.user`.
```

  ```swift {{ filename: 'SignUporSignInView.swift' }}
  import SwiftUI

  struct SignUpOrSignInView: View {
    @State private var isSignUp = true
    
    var body: some View {
      ScrollView {
        if isSignUp {
          SignUpView()
        } else {
          SignInView()
        }
        
        Button {
          isSignUp.toggle()
        } label: {
          if isSignUp {
            Text("Already have an account? Sign In")
          } else {
            Text("Don't have an account? Sign Up")
          }
        }
        .padding()
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  ### Allow users to sign up or sign in

  Go back to your `ContentView` and render your newly created `SignUpOrSignInView` when the user isn't signed in.

  ```swift {{ filename: 'ContentView.swift', mark: [12] }}
  import SwiftUI
  import ClerkSDK

  struct ContentView: View {
    @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared
    
    var body: some View {
      VStack {
        if let user = clerk.user {
          Text("Hello, \(user.id)")
        } else {
          SignUpOrSignInView()
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  ### Allow users to sign out

>   Finally, provide users with a way to sign out of your app:
> 
>   - Open your `ContentView`.
>   - Add a button that ends a user's session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Finally, provide users with a way to sign out of your app:

  1. Open your `ContentView`.
  1. Add a button that ends a user's session.
```

---
description: Add authentication and user management to your iOS app with Clerk.
---

# iOS Quickstart (Beta)

<Callout type="warning">
  The Clerk iOS SDK is currently in beta. It is **not yet recommended for production use**.
</Callout>

<TutorialHero
  framework="iOS"
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Clerk application",
      link: "https://clerk.com/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
      icon: "clerk",
    }
  ]}
>
  - Create a new Xcode project
  - Install the Clerk iOS SDK
  - Configure `Clerk` with your publishable key
  - Use Clerk to enable users to sign in and out of your application
</TutorialHero>

<Steps>
  ### Create an iOS Project

  To get started using Clerk with iOS, create a new project in Xcode. Select SwiftUI as your interface and Swift as your language.
  See the [Xcode documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/creating-an-xcode-project-for-an-app) for more information.

  ### Install the Clerk iOS SDK

  Follow the Swift Package Manager [instructions](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/adding-package-dependencies-to-your-app) to install Clerk as a dependency.

>   When prompted for the package url, enter [https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios). Be sure to add the package to your target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When prompted for the package URL, enter [https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios). Be sure to add the package to your target.
```

  ### Load Clerk

  Inside your new project in Xcode, open your `@main` app file.

>   - Import the ClerkSDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Import `ClerkSDK`.
```

>   Inside your new project in Xcode, open your `@main` app file.
> 
>   - Import the ClerkSDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Clerk in your app, you must first load configure and then load it: (or write something similar that explains what this step is doing, conceptually)

  - Inside your new project in Xcode, open your `@main` app file.
  - Import the ClerkSDK.
```

  - Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.
  - Replace `ContentView()` with the below `ZStack`.

>   - Attach a `.task` modifier to the new `ZStack`. In the body of the task, configure `clerk` with your publishable key, and then load `clerk`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Attach a `.task` modifier to the new `ZStack`. In the body of the task, configure `clerk` with your publishable key, and then load `clerk`. You can get your publishable key from the [API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page of the Clerk Dashboard.
```

  <InjectKeys>
    ```swift {{ filename: 'ClerkQuickstartApp.swift', mark: [2, 6, [10, 20]] }}
    import SwiftUI
    import ClerkSDK

    @main
    struct ClerkQuickstartApp: App {
        @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared

        var body: some Scene {
            WindowGroup {
                ZStack {
                    if clerk.loadingState == .notLoaded {
                        ProgressView()
                    } else {
                        ContentView()
                    }
                }
                .task {
                    clerk.configure(publishableKey: "pk_test_YW11c2luZy1iYXJuYWNsZS0yNi5jbGVyay5hY2NvdW50cy5kZXYk")
                    try? await clerk.load()
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```
  </InjectKeys>

  ### Conditionally render content

>   Open your `ContentView` file.
> 
>   - Import the ClerkSDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To render content based on whether a user is authenticated or not:

  - Open your `ContentView` file.
  - Import `ClerkSDK`.
```

  - Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.

>   - Replace the content of the view body with the below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Replace the content of the view body with a conditional that checks for a `clerk.user`.
```

  ```swift {{ filename: 'ContentView.swift', mark: [2, 5, [8, 14]] }}
  import SwiftUI
  import ClerkSDK

  struct ContentView: View {
      @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared

      var body: some View {
          VStack {
              if let user = clerk.user {
                  Text("Hello, \(user.id)")
              } else {
                  Text("You are signed out")
              }
          }
      }
  }
  ```

>   ### Create views for sign up and sign in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ### Create views for sign-up and sign-in
```

  #### `SignUpView`

>   The following example creates a `SignUpView` that allows users to sign up using email address and password, and sends an email verification code to confirm their email address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The following example creates a `SignUpView` that allows users to sign up using their email address and password, and sends an email verification code to confirm their email address.
```

                    Task { await verify(code: code) }
                }
            } else {
                TextField("Email", text: $email)
                SecureField("Password", text: $password)
                Button("Continue") {
                    Task { await signUp(email: email, password: password) }
                }
            }
        }
        .padding()
    }
  }

  extension SignUpView {
    
    func signUp(email: String, password: String) async {
        do {
            let signUp = try await SignUp.create(
                strategy: .standard(emailAddress: email, password: password)
            )
            
            try await signUp.prepareVerification(strategy: .emailCode)

            isVerifying = true
        } catch {
            dump(error)
        }
    }
    
    func verify(code: String) async {
        do {
            guard let signUp = Clerk.shared.client?.signUp else {
                isVerifying = false
                return
            }
            
            try await signUp.attemptVerification(.emailCode(code: code))
        } catch {
            dump(error)
        }
    }
    
  }
  ```

  #### `SignInView`

>   The following example creates a `SignInView` that allows users to sign in using email address and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The following example creates a `SignInView` that allows users to sign in using their email address and password.
```

  ```swift {{ filename: 'SignInView.swift' }}
  import SwiftUI
  import ClerkSDK

  struct SignInView: View {
      @State private var email = ""
      @State private var password = ""
      
      var body: some View {
          VStack {
              Text("Sign In")
              TextField("Email", text: $email)
              SecureField("Password", text: $password)
              Button("Continue") {
                  Task { await submit(email: email, password: password) }
              }
          }
          .padding()
      }
  }

  extension SignInView {
      
      func submit(email: String, password: String) async {
          do {
              try await SignIn.create(
                  strategy: .identifier(email, password: password)
              )
          } catch {
              dump(error)
          }
      }
      
  }
  ```

  #### `SignUpOrSignInView`

>   Finally, let's create a `SignUpOrSignInView` container view that allows users to switch between sign up and sign in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Finally, create a `SignUpOrSignInView` container view that allows users to switch between sign up and sign in.
```

  ```swift {{ filename: 'SignUporSignInView.swift' }}
  import SwiftUI

  struct SignUpOrSignInView: View {
      @State private var isSignUp = true
      
      var body: some View {
          ScrollView {
              if isSignUp {
                  SignUpView()
              } else {
                  SignInView()
              }
              
              Button {
                  isSignUp.toggle()
              } label: {
                  if isSignUp {
                      Text("Already have an account? Sign In")
                  } else {
                      Text("Don't have an account? Sign Up")
                  }
              }
              .padding()
          }
      }
  }
  ```

  ### Allow users to sign up or sign in

>   Now go back to your `ContentView` and render your newly created `SignUpOrSignInView` when the user isn't signed in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Go back to your `ContentView` and render your newly created `SignUpOrSignInView` when the user isn't signed in.
```

  ```swift {{ filename: 'ContentView.swift', mark: [12] }}
  import SwiftUI
  import ClerkSDK

  struct ContentView: View {
    @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared
    
    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            if let user = clerk.user {
                Text("Hello, \(user.id)")
            } else {
                SignUpOrSignInView()
            }
        }
    }
  }
  ```

  ### Allow users to sign out

>   Next, we'll provide users with a way to sign out of your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Finally, provide users with a way to sign out of your app:
```

>   - Open your `ContentView`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Open your `ContentView`.
```

>   - Add the below sign out button so that users can end their session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Add a button that ends a user's session.
```

---
description: Add authentication and user management to your iOS app with Clerk.
---

# iOS Quickstart (Beta)

> <Callout type="warning">
>   The Clerk iOS SDK is currently in beta. It is **not yet recommended for production use**.
> </Callout>

Reviewer: `<Callout>` is deprecated in favour of [blockquote-based syntax](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#callouts):

```suggestion
> [!WARNING]
> The Clerk iOS SDK is currently in beta. It is **not yet recommended for production use**.
```

  See the [Xcode documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/creating-an-xcode-project-for-an-app) for more information.

  ### Install the Clerk iOS SDK

  Follow the Swift Package Manager [instructions](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/adding-package-dependencies-to-your-app) to install Clerk as a dependency.
  When prompted for the package URL, enter [https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-ios). Be sure to add the package to your target.

  ### Load Clerk

  To use Clerk in your app, you must first configure and load `Clerk`.

  - Inside your new project in Xcode, open your `@main` app file.
  - Import `ClerkSDK`.
  - Add a new variable `clerk` marked with the `@ObservedObject` property wrapper.
  - Replace `ContentView()` with the below `ZStack`.
  - Attach a `.task` modifier to the new `ZStack`. In the body of the task, configure `clerk` with your publishable key, and then load `clerk`. You can get your publishable key from the [API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys) page of the Clerk Dashboard.

>   <InjectKeys>
>     ```swift {{ filename: 'ClerkQuickstartApp.swift', mark: [2, 6, [10, 20]] }}
>     import SwiftUI
>     import ClerkSDK
> 
>     @main
>     struct ClerkQuickstartApp: App {
>         @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared
> 
>         var body: some Scene {
>             WindowGroup {
>                 ZStack {
>                     if clerk.loadingState == .notLoaded {
>                         ProgressView()
>                     } else {
>                         ContentView()
>                     }
>                 }
>                 .task {
>                     clerk.configure(publishableKey: "pk_test_YW11c2luZy1iYXJuYWNsZS0yNi5jbGVyay5hY2NvdW50cy5kZXYk")
>                     try? await clerk.load()
>                 }
>             }
>         }
>     }
>     ```
>   </InjectKeys>

Reviewer: `<InjectKeys>` is not required, and the [`{{pub_key}}` shortcode](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-block-shortcodes) can be used to inject the user's public key:

```suggestion
  ```swift {{ filename: 'ClerkQuickstartApp.swift', mark: [2, 6, [10, 20]] }}
  import SwiftUI
  import ClerkSDK

  @main
  struct ClerkQuickstartApp: App {
      @ObservedObject private var clerk = Clerk.shared

      var body: some Scene {
          WindowGroup {
              ZStack {
                  if clerk.loadingState == .notLoaded {
                      ProgressView()
                  } else {
                      ContentView()
                  }
              }
              .task {
                  clerk.configure(publishableKey: "{{pub_key}}")
                  try? await clerk.load()
              }
          }
      }
  }
  ```
```

Author: oh thanks good catch! I had {{ pubkey }} in there but I must've copy pasted over it at some point.
